---
layout: post
title:  MAXOUT A Sinatra Application
tags:
- News
- Tags
- Blog
- Post
---

MAXOUT is a Sinatra application that allows users to create a user account, create a workout session with exercises, and then log the max weight for each exercise. 

When I set out to create this application I didn't realize how complex such an undertaking would become. While in the labs leading up to this 

One of the major challenges I faced in building this application was how to deal with dates. Currently the application is only useable on the Google Chrome Browser because it is the only browser that supports the HTML date input, which is central to designating the date for each workout session. 

While I initially experimented with tracking user entries and exercises by date and time, this method proved unsuccessful because Ruby doesn't search by precise time well and this approach wouldn't be effective for entries in which there are two dates on the same day. Of course, the ID worked perfect for this instead.

Putting this project together was also a great chance to practice Active Record Associations. While I came into the lab with a solid understanding of many to many, has_many/belongs to, and has_many_through, the lab really helped reinforce these concepts. Initially, I was very circumspect in writing all the possible combinations that occurred in these associations down, but after a time period I came to realize that having a general sense of what each association did was effective enough and that I could add new associations in the process.  

Most of the other challenges I faced were typical Ruby stuff that was relatively easy to overcome through Google searches.

The greatest weakness of this project is clearly the Front End Design. In the future I would ideally like to incorporate bootstrap. However, I realize the functionality of an application like this is ideally mobile, so changing the design might need to wait until I'm more familiar with mobile app design. 

[linkname](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lp1XHII0dfY&feature=youtu.be)

